---
title: Codeword
published_at: 2016-04-07T08:44:20Z
---

Those of you tuned into San Francisco will already know that last year jwz
(owner of DNA Lounge and ex-Netscape hacker) opened a new venue down on 5th and
Folsom called Codeword. Reading [his posts][codeword1] on [the
subject][codeword2] are fascinating.

Unfortunately, the operation doesn't seem to be doing very well:

> Business at the new restaurant has been terrible. Business at the new club
> has been beyond terrible. Like, the attendance on many nights has been so low
> that we lost money by being open at all.

Let me preface this by saying that the DNA Lounge is the best club in the city.
All things considered, it may even be one of the most _interesting_ worldwide
given the huge variety of events and thematic creativity that's put into the
place ([Berghain][berghain] of course probably still reigns supreme). Death
Guild is easily my favorite regular event in SF, and parties like
[Cyberdelia][codeword2] are close to the best commercial evening activities
possible within the legal framework of California [2].

All of that said, the choice to open a new club on 5th is a little astonishing.
I _live_ on the block, and can attest firsthand that this area is a cultural
wasteland as far as SF is concerned [1]. Although the population density is
quite high due to the unusual number of residential high-rises in the area, the
residents are generally well-to-do white collar workers who decided to stay in
SF instead of going out to the suburbs. They're at home watching _The Food
Network_, not out clubbing.

The immediate location isn't doing the place any favors either. As noted in his
posts, construction is incessant and likely to be a near-permanent fixture.
Folsom St itself is one half of split highway through the heart of SF and its
high speed traffic makes being anywhere near the street incredibly unpleasant
(unlike the DNA Lounge's much calmer 11th St). There are no other interesting
establishments within a block or more, with anything commercial being either a
gas station, sex shop, auto mechanic, or convenience store. It's also _just_
far enough away from Moscone and Westfield that conference goers and shoppers
will never see it.

All I can think to suggest is that he try to pick up some of the daytime
"cafe people with laptops" crowd. Although certainly not the most lucrative
clientele in existence, they do buy drinks and fill tables during the day. With
newer cafes being built without Wi-fi and practically without tables to ensure
that people don't overstay their welcome [3], and older establishments slowly
being priced out of business, this demographic increasingly has nowhere to go.
Given that Codeword's Internet is already good, they probably need only
advertise that they serve responsibly-sourced and locally roasted coffee that
costs at least $5 a cup (and possibly also install some reclaimed wood tables)
to get the hordes in the door.

Either way, I wish jwz the best with respect to the project. As a
not-totally-dispassionate observer of SF, it's incredibly relieving to see
interesting venues opening instead of closing.

[berghain]: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2014/03/24/berlin-nights
[codeword1]: https://www.dnalounge.com/backstage/log/2015/12/22.html
[codeword2]: https://www.dnalounge.com/backstage/log/2016/01/27.html

[1] Note that I call it a "cultural wasteland" because I'm comparing it to the
    standards of SF. Relative to almost any other area in any North American
    city, it's still doing alright.

[2] I grew up in the 80s and rank _Hackers_ among my favorite movies ever, so
    my opinion may carry some bias.

[3] See any location of Sightglass, Blue Bottle, Four Barrel, or Ritual.
