---
title: Insecurity By Instinct
published_at: 2015-12-25T01:09:44Z
---

After two years of good luck, I dropped my iPhone 6 on the sidewalk and the
screen artfully shattered into a complex web of a million pieces. Naturally,
two days before my trip home for the holiday break. In a rush to get it back to
normal for coming the multi-week trip, I went to a local repair shop in SF
operating out of a small office in SOMA overlooking the freeway who could
repair the screen same day.

While filling out a form containing my contact information, I came across a
field called "phone passcode" and marked as mandatory. When I informed the
staff that I wouldn't be putting down a passcode, they were floored; obviously
the first time such an appalling event had occurred in the shop's history. The
fact that a client might refuse to surrender the code protecting their e-mail
(personal and probably corporate), two-factor codes, chat history, files in
Dropbox, notes, photos, and an untold amount of active sessions in their mobile
browser [1] was so incredulous that it left them momentarily speechless.

You can drop a few million on the latest iOS zero-day, but by far the easiest
way to compromise a user's security is to just to ask them to do it (nicely of
course).

_(To their credit, they still fixed the phone, and did a reasonable job of
accommodating a paranoid nutcase like myself who'd obviously just removed their
tinfoil because it wouldn't fit through the door of the building.)_

[1] Note even to mention access to the SIM card that they probably left in
their phone and which may be set as a recovery number on a number of their
critical accounts.
