---
title: Notes on the New 12" MacBook
published_at: 2015-05-19T13:17:50Z
---

After a few weeks of deliberation, I decided to go through with the purchase of
Apple's new 12" MacBook (otherwise known rather ambiguously as just "the
MacBook"). My old 11" MacBook Air was in pretty rough shape, and I was looking
forward to kick the habit of doubling my work laptop as a personal machine
anyway. I was indecisive for a time though because although I'd been looking
forward to Apple's impending release with the most Apple lust that I'd had
since the iPhone 4, the final design raised so many red flags that it was
really right down the wire as to whether I would get one.

The Apple Store was estimating something like a six week delivery schedule at
the time, so as you can imagine, I was pleasantly surprised when I had it in my
hands roughly three days after ordering. Better to underpromise and overdeliver
I guess.

![The 12" MacBook](/assets/macbook-12/macbook-12.jpg)

## The Good

The laptop's **retina display** is absolutely beautiful. A full screen terminal
with anti-aliased Inconsolata is by far the most gorgeous development
environment that I've experienced to date.

The **touchpad** was by far the biggest surprise. Whenever a company starts
talking about haptic feedback, I start to worry immediately, a characteristic
that I largely attribute to lingering memories of RIM's early trainwrecks in
the area. I needn't have &mdash; a click on the new trackpad feels almost
identical to the physical versions seen in previous Apple laptops. I didn't
even _really_ believe that there wasn't a physical mechanism until I powered
the laptop down. But doing so did indeed confirm Apple's claims, and provided
me with an incredibly eerie experience.

Another very pleasant surprise was the big reduction in size of the **power
brick**. It's now closer in size to what ships with an iPad than any previous
generation of Apple laptop, and is very easy to carry around with you (it's 29W
compared to the Air's 45W brick). I'm really looking forward to a future where
USB-C is ubiquitous and I can re-use that brick for all my devices.

I was upgrading from a Macbook Air that was a few generations behind so the new
MacBook's **battery life** also came as a nice surprise. When I can, I'll often
work entire days without visiting a power outlet, and so far I've never come
close to running out of juice. (That said, I keep a pretty close eye on `top -o
cpu` for processes that are out of line.)

## The Bad

The **keyboard** is about as disappointing as I expected. A lot of review sites
claim that it's something "that you'll have to get used to", and to some degree
they're right. But after getting used to it for a few weeks now, I can
confidently say that although it's not the worst, it's pretty apparent that I
won't ever be hitting the same kinds of typing speeds that I could with the old
scissors keys.

I really miss **MagSafe**. A lot of that is just the ease at which I could plug
in a laptop before, but I also miss the visual charge feedback in the form of
an LED on the cable coming on. Apple tried to replace that with an iPhone-esque
sound effect. It didn't work. I'm conflicted about this one though; if the gain
here is a "one size fits all" cable in a world where every device uses USB-C,
then maybe the trade-off is worth it.

**Clockspeed** isn't the worst problem, but it is _a_ problem. Most day to day
tasks are okay for now, but trying to compile or do anything CPU intensive is
noticeably slower than even the previous generation of MacBook Airs.

I was really hoping to feel the **weight** reduction, but despite being
lighter, I barely noticed the difference between it and my old MacBook Air
except that its narrower profile allowed me to fit it through the mouth of my
bag more easily. Unfortunately, I think the major gains in this area have
already been gotten.

## The Ugly

The **peripheral ports** are unquestionably the worst thing about the new
MacBook. At only one port I find myself constantly having to make hard
decisions like whether I want to charge the device or pull some photos off of
my camera. Even two ports would have gone a long way towards a more reasonable
experience in this area.

Worse yet (and thus classifying the ugly categorization), I don't even see how
the 12" MacBook will be a good fit into the USB-C heavy ecosystem of the
future. I think a lot of people are envisioning an external display that you
can plug in and instantly get access to (1) power, (2) the second display, (3)
a huge selection of external devices, and everything else under the sun. The
trouble is that many of these new displays are naturally going to ship at 4k
resolution, a number that will be truly daunting for the underpowered MacBook.

## Summary

I _really_ like using the new MacBook. The screen, battery life, and smaller
power brick make a big enough difference for me that they outweigh all the new
machine's minuses. That said, I wish that Apple hadn't cut things so close to
the wire in terms of making a useful computer. There were so many design flaws
that the decision to put the order in was difficult, and even now that I own it
and like it, I still find myself questioning the purchase compared to something
like the latest version of the 11" (_still_ non-Retina) MacBook Air.
