---
title: MonkeyBrains
published_at: 2016-01-23T01:15:58Z
image: https://c2.staticflickr.com/2/1590/24197211299_21c6c7413a_b.jpg
#image: https://c2.staticflickr.com/2/1511/24456650802_996f3d74e3_b.jpg
---

One "worst part" of living in SOMA is the endless construction. Its latest
casualty was my Internet connection, a point-to-point radio service depends on
an open view between an antenna mounted on my roof and an access point
installed a block away. A building across the street had added two more floors
and built right into its line-of-sight. Within the span of a week my previously
fast Internet had degraded to a 4 mbit/s link most closely related to a dial-up
link from the 90s [1]. To make matters worse, a new building also recently went
up right next door, obscuring at least another 90 degrees and further reducing
options for potential new targets for the antenna.

A technician stopped by and proceeded to pace sullenly across the roof as he
examined my new circumstances. It was overwhelmingly clear inside the first
five seconds that prospects were grim. For the next half-hour he alternated
between walking back and forth on the roof checking sight lines, dialing back
into headquarters to have energetic conversations about local access points
with his colleagues, and staring forlornly at adjacent buildings. By the end of
it I had a mental shopping list of alternate service providers prepared and
ready to go. As he left, he promised to add a ticket into their system for
follow-up, and to do everything in their power for me, a little like a doctor
might in confidential tones after telling someone that they were terminally
ill.

As I was leaving the house this morning I got a surprising response on my
support ticket: they'd been able to use equipment at their office to remotely
reconfigure my antenna to a new access point and that my connection was now
looking great. A quick check on Speedtest confirmed that it was indeed back up
to speeds of almost 65 mbit/s symmetrical [2].

I don't understand it, but I'm not questioning things too much. MonkeyBrains
works in mysterious ways.

On a more serious note, I've generally great luck with MonkeyBrains over the
year and a half that I've been with them [3] and would very much recommend the
service. I may be one of the only people in all of North America who gets a 50+
mbit/s connection for $35/month without hidden fees.

[1] <a href="https://drop.brandur.org/monkey-brains-degraded.png">Degraded speedtest</a>. 4.28/4.78 mbit/s.

[2] <a href="https://drop.brandur.org/monkey-brains-optimal.png">Optimal speedtest</a>. 63.35/53.92 mbit/s.

[3] The only exception being the time they knocked out my Internet for a few
days without telling me so that they could install a line for my neighbor.
