---
title: PAX
published_at: 2014-09-04T22:59:21Z
---

I just returned from my very first experience at PAX Prime in Seattle. I'm not
truly passionate about video games the way that most other PAX attendees are,
but a friend had an extra set of passes so I jumped at the rare opportunity
(the passes sold out in less than two hours this year).

And indeed, between the swarms of people, the flashy booths and displays, the
gargantuan size of some props, and the mindnumbing number of games on display,
PAX is an extremely impressive sight to behold.

The most distinctive feature of PAX has nothing to do with gaming. Any
first-hand observer could tell you that the core value of PAX is its lineups.
From the second you enter the convention center all the way until its doors
close on day four, you'll be lining up. Your first obstacle will be lineup to
get up the escalator; a lineup to get to other lineups. Things continue along
the same theme from there: every game you want to try, every panel or session
that you want to see, and every piece of merchandise you want to buy, you'll be
lining up. These aren't small lineups either; many (if not most) are hours
long. As an SXSW participant for the last few years, I thought I knew what a
lineup looked like. Oh to be so naive.

The lineups don't end at the convention center's doors either. The very worst
of them are to be found at PAX afterparties where they need not be constrained
by mere buildings. I walked by one venue that was hosting an event for the _The
Evil Within_, and the lineup was three quarters of the way around a _full city
block_. I doubt most of them made it in, but at the rate it was moving, its
length would more accurately be measured in days than hours. First-hand reports
of the party (published the next day) were lackluster.

To support this brave new world, PAX organizers have made sure to stay on the
forefront of innovation in lineup science. It's the first place I've ever
observed a _queueing room_, where rooms adjacent to a session's venue are fully
dedicated to enclose lineups, complete with a labyrinth taped to the floor to
optimize their use of square footage. _Line capping_ is also a regularly
employed technique to help ensure that lineups occupy slightly less than 100%
of the convention's total floor. Some sessions even employ a [no line
system][no-line] which has the effect of creating an informal "floating lineup"
amongst PAX's lineup-compliant attendees. There's a [lineup brainstorming
thread][brainstorm] on Reddit to improve lineup techniques for 2015.

I stood in one lineup that led me into Penny Arcade creators' Mike and Jerry
(Gabe and Tycho) annual _Make a Strip!_ event, in which Mike draws a comic live
in the main theater. The skill involved here absolutely floored my non-artist
self, and it was an enjoyable experience. It also served to highlight the
degree to which these two are worshipped by PA fans, who hang on their every
syllable and laugh at every joke.

My favorite aspect of PAX was one that its organizers had nothing to do with:
the fanmade costumes were amazing. I'm at the point in my life where I don't
play enough games to recognize many of the characters anymore, but it seems
like the quality of these amateur costumes improves every year.

I don't know if I'll ever be back, but I was grateful for the opportunity to
see PAX for myself.

[brainstorm]: http://www.reddit.com/r/PAX/comments/2f9ll7/lets_talk_about_the_lines/
[no-line]: http://www.reddit.com/r/PAX/comments/2f1sq4/pax_says_no_lines_for_ai/
