---
title: Plex for PS4
published_at: 2015-12-07T18:33:21Z
---

I recently picked up a PS4 mostly due to a FOMO on certain rich gaming
experiences like _The Last of Us_ and _Journey_. An unexpected bonus to fall
out of the purchase was the availability of a Plex client for the platform.
I picked up a Plex Pass (still required) and downloaded it.

The interface is nowhere as nice as [Plex's new interface for the Apple
TV][apple-tv], or even the interface they've been shipping for years for OSX,
but it's functional and follows the styling of the rest of the PS4's GUI pretty
well. The basic staples that you'd expect, like cover art and basic
descriptions, are there even if they're a little slow to load compared to other
clients.

The basic playback controls work pretty well with a PS4 controller. Scrubbing
isn't bad, with the L1/R1 buttons able to move backward or forward to seek a
time, and the video pausing briefly while the server's transcoder catches up.

Subtitles are painful in that they're not selectable from the client itself.
Rather a default subtitle (or audio) track needs to be selected for videos from
Plex Media Server's media manager UI and it will respect those options when
transcoding to clients. Setting a global subtitle language default for
non-English movies works well except for when a video's languages haven't been
labeled.

Video playback was generally problem-free, but once in a while a video would
have trouble starting and I'd get an error indicating that playback timed out.
It would usually work on the second try. I stress tested the setup a bit with
the bird scene from the beginning of the first episode of _Planet Earth_ and it
did lag considerably, but I'm glad to say though that this was the only
instance of this problem that I ran into.

![Bird Scene](/assets/fragments/plex-ps4/bird-scene.jpg)

The PS4 version of Plex is far from the best client out there, but I'm now set
up so that my PS4 handles all my videos, music (via Spotify), and gaming so I'm
never fiddling with inputs on my receiver anymore which is worth a lot. Until I
find a more significant problem I'll keep using Plex for PS4 as my main
playback client.

[apple-tv]: https://blog.plex.tv/2015/11/02/plex-on-the-new-apple-tv/
