---
title: Traffic
published_at: 2016-04-19T16:35:03Z
---

I write this after having been almost run over this morning in a crosswalk.
_Again._ Inattentive motorists are a problem as old as time, but in SF we're
not just dealing with drivers who are not paying attention to the periphery,
they're not even looking _straight ahead of them_. To add insult to injury, in
all cases, these subhuman scumbags give me an apologetic wave of the hand, as
if this is somehow supposed to be some sort of adequate penance for almost
killing me.

Anyone who drives will tell you that traffic has been getting worse in San
Francisco, which isn't surprising given increased economic activity. This is
bad for drivers, but even worse for pedestrians cyclists trying to use the same
roads. You see, drivers have realized the dirty little secret of SF: that
traffic regulations are not enforced, especially during rush hour, and bad
behavior doesn't have consequences.

If you walk through SOMA or the Financial District during one of the busier
parts of the day, you won't see a single pedestrian crosswalk, dedicated
bicycle lane, or intersection that isn't gridlocked by cars whose drivers have
realized that if they the traffic rules of SF are elastic; even if stretched to
their extremes, there isn't a breaking point. If you block an intersection
after ignoring a red light, you'll get honked at, but nothing worse will
happen. If you lock down a crosswalk for an entire light rotation you'll get
some dirty looks and maybe a middle finger, but again, nothing will happen. If
you stop a pedestrian in a crosswalk in their tracks by refusing to yield to
them, the only net effect is that you'll get to make your turn a little faster.

The city's occasionally run some symbolic traffic enforcement campaigns to
ticket it a few drivers blocking intersections or doing 50% over the speed
limit on a busy urban street, but you're more likely to be struck by lightning
than be caught by one of these operations. The rational actor should break the
rules all the time to move a little bit faster, and just pay those occasional
dues when they come in [1].

The real question is how much further it'll go. Drivers will eventually realize
that if they can run a red during rush hour, then they can safely run a red at
any other time too [2]. Stop signs and uncontrolled crosswalks are already
ignored with wild abandon. Any resident of one of the SOMA alleys can tell you
that it's already not unusual to see people taking shortcuts _the wrong
direction_ down these one-way streets.

The most frustrating part of all of this is that the problem could be solved if
we wanted to solve it. Take some of the considerable forces of SFPD and the
SFMTA out of their cars, put them on the streets, and give them an easy
electronic way to flag violations. Once motorists start to see an average of
5-20 tickets rolling into their mailboxes every month, this whole problem
disappears overnight. As a bonus, you even take traffic off the road as you
start to transfer more of the real cost of this expensive activity away from
the public and onto the inner city drivers themselves.

But it will never happen. Instead, Ed Lee will continue to take measures
towards achieving Vision Zero which are known to be [ineffective][ineffective],
but which have the advantage of being politically inert, like pasting ad
campaigns all over city streets. Under his tenure, we will continue trading
lives for convenience, a practice which has become the hallmark of North
America's urban design.

[1] Even if a malevolent driver happens to push it a little too far and kill a
    pedestrian by accident, the paperwork might be heavy, but the sentence will
    be [light or non-existent][light-sentence].

[2] Even the precious few red light cameras in operation can be beaten with
    some basic knowledge of SF's street geography, and if that doesn't work
    out, relatively easily in court.

[ineffective]: https://www.hoodline.com/2016/03/vision-zero-has-yet-to-reduce-san-francisco-traffic-fatalities
[light-sentence]: http://sf.streetsblog.org/2014/05/14/legal-system-fails-again-no-charges-for-trucker-who-killed-amelie/
